All right.
So there are a couple of properties that logarithms have and we'll see how those work in this section
you might need to use them you know to simplify logarithms to solve equations etc. but I promise you
it's only four of them so it's really not that bad.
And they're really easy to do.
So let's see what they are.
All right.
So the four rules vary here.
They are for multiplication for division for exponentiation and for finding the nth root.
So let's do each one with an example.
So for the first one it's for multiplication.
The rule says the following.
If you have log of X Y and X Y or multiplying each other with base a then that is equal to the log of
the first plus the log of the second.
So multiplication becomes a sum.
So we can break these terms apart by saying a log of x with base a plus log of Y.
With base a.
So not as the base actually stays the same.
It's the same base as we have here.
But what we do is we separate each of these terms multiplying into its own log and then we add them
together and let's do an example.
What if we have log of 32
times 64 with base 2.
So we have two quantities that are multiplying within a log the 32 on the 64.
So let's go ahead and break those apart.
So we have the log of the first term which is 32
with base 2 plus log.
The second one which is 64
and base 2.
All right that's it.
So at this point the problem is not done.
You would have to find each of these.
But again I just wanted to show you how the multiplication and logs can be simplified.
All right.
So just like in multiplication we have a sum at the end and division.
It actually becomes a subtraction.
So we're going to have a minus sign and the rule says that if you have log of
so in the top example we were multiplying here we're going to be dividing X over Y
with base a
and again each one gets its own log.
So the X gets it and the Y gets it as well.
So we have log
x with base a minus see that.
So because they are dividing we have a minus here.
Log of Y with base a right.
So it was a quick example.
So we have
Lague of let's say a million 0 0 0 0 0 0 over a thousand
with pace 10 and again this is a common log.
Remember if the base is not specified and it says log then the base is 10.
If it says L-N on the other hand it's a natural log and the base is e.
All right.
And by the way you could totally do this first in here.
So you could literally divide a million by 1000.
That's going to give you a thousand and then just get the log of a thousand.
You can do that that's perfect.
However we want to show how we break it up.
So that's why we're doing it step by step.
We're actually breaking this up into two logs and the same thing for the multiplication.
You could have just multiplied the 32 times in 64 and then find the log of the rest of the product of
these two.
In fact if you're given a problem that's what you would do first.
But again as we're learning the properties of logarithms.
That's why we're breaking it up.
So here we have a division.
So we know that we need to break it apart into two logs and the logs are going to be subtracting.
So the log of the first one we have log of a million or 0 0 0 0 0 and I'll put it down here to save
some space.
Mine is the log of the next one is a thousand.
All right
there you go.
I remember these problems are not done we just simplified them.
In fact you should totally finish these up.
So find this phone and also find this one.
The answers were pretty easy to just go for it.
All right so the next one is exponentiation.
So if you have exponentiation within a log you can actually break it apart.
The rule says the following.
So the log
of x to the N with base a is equal to.
So what we do here is we grab this exponent N and we bring it to the outside multiplying.
Kind of like we do with the power rule.
Remember we bring down a dictator.
This comes out multiplying.
And we're left with only the eggs inside the log.
So and comes out times Lague of x with base a.
All right.
That's what we do.
That's pretty much it.
Just the end comes out multiplying and you're done.
All right so let's do an example here log.
Nine squared with base 3.
Ok so what do we do with the two.
It comes out multiplying the whole thing.
So it's going to be to log of just nine because we took out the squared with base three.
There we go.
And finally we have the nth root.
So how does this work.
The rule says that if you have a log of.
So here we have a route and it's going to be the end route.
So it could be the square root.
The third root the fourth root etc. etc..
And by the way the base is a.
So if you haven't and roots with then a log what you do is you take this and so remember how in this
example we actually just brought it outside of multiplying.
Well in this example we're going to bring it outside multiplying.
But in the bottom of a fraction and in the top we're going to have a 1.
So we end through it becomes 1 over and and then that multiplies the log.
Multiplies Lagann of x with base a.
Right.
So the moment we take this out and we put it as one over and the rule goes away we just keep the x.
All right.
So very similar to the exponentiation one.
The only difference is that here it comes as one over and instead of just and like over here.
All right so let's do a quick example for this one if we have log of let's say that we're looking for
the third root of 27 with the base of three.
All right.
So we have an end through what we can actually go ahead and take this route and put it as 1 over 3.
Multiplying right times log of 27 with base 3.
All right.
That is how you break it apart.
Great.
So we just went over the four most important properties for logarithms.
So remember multiplication and division and they're very similar.
The only difference is that when you're multiplying eventually you have logs that are adding each other.
And when you're dividing you have logs that are subtracting.
So they're opposites and the same way exponentiation and the roots are opposites it's well in exponentiation.
You bring out the exponents multiplying everything else.
And in the end through and you bring down one over the roots.
So the roots and it becomes one over.
And I remember that once you bring down this and or this roots then all you have left is just whatever
you were exponentiate ing or whatever you were finding the root for.
So in this case the root goes away.
And in this case the exponent goes away.
All right.
So I want to go ahead and finish up these four problems so this one this one this one and this one again
they should be really really easy.
You probably don't need a calculator for each of these but you're free to use it as well.
All right.
So go ahead and give those a shot.
And before we go I want to go over two more properties but I'll give them to you as examples.
So the main takeaway is we're doing a log problem.
I want you to think about what you're doing.
So for example what is the log
of B.
With base b.
So we have B as a base and B as a result.
What could this be.
So think about what it is that we're asking.
We're asking to what number do you need to raise be so beat to the what equals Cosby well.
I think it's pretty obvious right.
Be to the one equals B.
Anything else does not equal B.
So the answer to this is that the log of B with base b is just 1 1 is the only number so that when you
raise B you get B again.
OK.
And the second example is Lague of 1 with base b.
So again let's try to think about what we're doing.
So we're saying to which number do we need to raise be in order to get 1 Well remember that anything
to the zero power is 1 ok except 0 2 0.
But that's another topic.
All right.
Pretty much anything to the zero power is 1.
So the exponent that this B needs to have in order for this to become one is zero.
Therefore the log of 1 with base b equals zero right.
So these are our two special properties.
And again you don't really need to memorize this.
All I want you to do is while you're doing a problem think about what it is that you're being asked
to find.
I don't want you to see this log of one with base b and get all freaked out.
No.
So OK they are asking B to the Waad equals 1.
Well the answer is zero.
Same thing over here.
I don't want you to look at log B B.
Oh we have two B's.
What's going on here.
No.
Again ask yourself what is it that the problem is asking when we elevate B to what it equals beat.
Well when equals one.
Therefore the answer is 1.
All right.
So always always for calculus in general.
Always think about what they're trying to ask you instead of freaking out.
Sit down and say OK what it is that we need to get here.
Is it a derivative is it an equation.
Is it an equation for a line.
What is it exactly.
And then try to figure it out.
All right.
So that's it for the properties of logarithms.
I'll see you in the next tutorial.